{"answer": "", "cits": [{"pmid": "https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38060040/", "cit": "[1] Chegini M et al. (2023). \"Whole exome sequencing identifies novel pathogenic variants in TGM1 and ALOX12B in patients with hereditary ichthyosis.\" Archives of dermatological research, 316(1)"}, {"pmid": "https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36258281/", "cit": "[2] Kotoe Mae et al. (2022). \"Novel homozygous missense mutation c.1654G>T in the ALOX12B gene causing congenital ichthyosiform erythroderma\" The Journal of Dermatology, 50"}, {"pmid": "https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/27397505/", "cit": "[3] Iorio F et al. (2016). \"A Landscape of Pharmacogenomic Interactions in Cancer.\" Cell, 166(3) [SUPP]"}, {"pmid": "https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32579932/", "cit": "[4] Triki M et al. (2020). \"mTOR Signaling and SREBP Activity Increase FADS2 Expression and Can Activate Sapienate Biosynthesis.\" Cell reports, 31(12) [SUPP]"}], "rcv_cit_count": 0, "rcv_cits": [], "status_answer_code": 0, "status_info_code": false, "cit_count": 4, "conversation_uuid": "801787fc-dbe4-4953-b02a-d1053d6e81ec", "triggering_question_lambda": false, "answer_uuid": ""}
The genomic variant c.1654G>T p.Gly552Cys rs1201448391 in the ALOX12B gene is a missense mutation that results in the substitution of glycine with cysteine at the 552nd amino acid position of the protein. This variant has been identified in the context of hereditary ichthyosis, a clinically and genetically heterogeneous disorder. The ALOX12B gene encodes the 12R-lipoxygenase enzyme, which is crucial for the proper functioning of the epidermal barrier. Deficiencies or disruptions in the enzyme's activity due to mutations such as c.1654G>T can lead to abnormal barrier function, which is a characteristic feature of certain types of ichthyosis, including congenital ichthyosiform erythroderma (CIE) [1][2].The c.1654G>T variant has been classified as pathogenic/likely pathogenic according to the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG) criteria, which underscores its clinical significance in the diagnosis of hereditary ichthyosis. Whole exome sequencing (WES) has proven to be a powerful tool in identifying such mutations, enabling accurate molecular diagnosis and facilitating reproductive planning, carrier screening, and prenatal diagnosis for at-risk families [1]. The identification of this variant contributes to the growing body of evidence that supports the diagnostic value of WES in hereditary ichthyosis and highlights the importance of genetic testing in the management and counseling of affected individuals and their relatives.