{"answer": "", "cits": [{"pmid": "https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30409984/", "cit": "[1] John SE et al. (2018). \"Assessment of coding region variants in Kuwaiti population: implications for medical genetics and population genomics.\" Scientific reports, 8(1)"}, {"pmid": "https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38060040/", "cit": "[2] Chegini M et al. (2023). \"Whole exome sequencing identifies novel pathogenic variants in TGM1 and ALOX12B in patients with hereditary ichthyosis.\" Archives of dermatological research, 316(1)"}, {"pmid": "https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/22437313/", "cit": "[3] Aufenvenne K et al. (2012). \"Long-term faithful recapitulation of transglutaminase 1-deficient lamellar ichthyosis in a skin-humanized mouse model, and insights from proteomic studies.\" The Journal of investigative dermatology, 132(7)"}, {"pmid": "https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/19241467/", "cit": "[4] Herman ML et al. (2009). \"Transglutaminase-1 gene mutations in autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis: summary of mutations (including 23 novel) and modeling of TGase-1.\" Human mutation, 30(4)"}, {"pmid": "https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/27149842/", "cit": "[5] Giannakis M et al. (2016). \"Genomic Correlates of Immune-Cell Infiltrates in Colorectal Carcinoma.\" Cell reports, 15(4) [SUPP]"}, {"pmid": "https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/26147798/", "cit": "[6] Ferrarini A et al. (2015). \"The Use of Non-Variant Sites to Improve the Clinical Assessment of Whole-Genome Sequence Data.\" PloS one, 10(7) [SUPP]"}, {"pmid": "https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/26659599/", "cit": "[7] Holehouse AS et al. (2015). \"Reproducible Analysis of Post-Translational Modifications in Proteomes--Application to Human Mutations.\" PloS one, 10(12) [SUPP]"}], "rcv_cit_count": 3, "rcv_cits": [{"link": "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/clinvar/RCV000013299/", "rcv": "RCV000013299", "clinv_table": [{"type": "germline", "weight": 0.3, "rev_status": 2, "clin_sig": "Pathogenic/Likely pathogenic", "clin_sig_map": "P"}], "min_weights": 0.3, "condition": "Autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis 1"}, {"link": "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/clinvar/RCV001387567/", "rcv": "RCV001387567", "clinv_table": [{"type": "germline", "weight": 0.4, "rev_status": 1, "clin_sig": "Pathogenic", "clin_sig_map": "P"}], "min_weights": 0.4, "condition": "not provided"}, {"link": "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/clinvar/RCV001836706/", "rcv": "RCV001836706", "clinv_table": [{"type": "germline", "weight": 0.4, "rev_status": 1, "clin_sig": "Pathogenic", "clin_sig_map": "P"}], "min_weights": 0.4, "condition": "Abnormality of the skin"}], "status_answer_code": 0, "status_info_code": false, "cit_count": 7, "conversation_uuid": "fe987aad-4665-402e-bf15-3a494c71cb60", "triggering_question_lambda": false, "answer_uuid": ""}
The genomic variant c.428G>A p.Arg143His, also known as rs121918719, is located on the TGM1 gene, which encodes for the enzyme transglutaminase 1 (TGase-1). TGase-1 plays a crucial role in the formation of the cornified cell envelope, a structure essential for the barrier function of the epidermis [4]. Mutations in TGM1, such as rs121918719, are associated with autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis (ARCI), a heterogeneous group of rare cornification disorders characterized by dry, scaly skin [4].The rs121918719 variant results in the amino acid substitution of arginine to histidine at position 143 of the TGase-1 protein. This missense mutation has been identified in patients clinically diagnosed with hereditary ichthyosis and has been classified as pathogenic/likely pathogenic according to the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG) classification criteria [2]. The pathogenicity of this variant is further supported by segregation analysis within affected families [2].In a study that utilized whole exome sequencing (WES) for the molecular diagnosis of hereditary ichthyosis, the c.428G>A variant was identified alongside other mutations in TGM1 and ALOX12B genes. The identification of these mutations enabled carrier detection in at-risk relatives and offered opportunities for reproductive planning and prenatal diagnosis [2]. Another study reported the successful development of a skin-humanized mouse model for TG1-deficient lamellar ichthyosis using bioengineered human skin grafts from patients with TGM1 mutations, including c.428G>A. This model recapitulated the human skin phenotype and provided a platform for long-term pre-clinical studies and investigation of molecular mechanisms underlying the disease [3].The rs121918719 variant is the most commonly reported TGM1 mutation, particularly among North American and Norwegian patients, suggesting a possible founder effect. The high frequency of mutations at arginine codons in TGM1, including the Arg143 residue affected by rs121918719, may be attributed to the deamination of methylated CpG dinucleotides, which are hotspots for mutations [4].In summary, the c.428G>A p.Arg143His rs121918719 variant in the TGM1 gene is a pathogenic mutation that contributes to the clinical manifestations of ARCI. The TGM1 gene's function in epidermal barrier formation underscores the significance of this variant in the pathophysiology of hereditary ichthyosis. ClinVar has recorded a total of three pathogenic submissions for this variant, further corroborating its clinical relevance in the context of rare dermatological conditions.